# An Awkward Warning #draft

Adabra regretted her choices. It had seemed like such a good idea at the time. Both her longbow and her crossbow needed new strings, and her arrows and bolts needed fletching repaired. So on this clear, sunny morning, she had disassembled all of them. At the same time. Her worktable was a mess of wood, feathers, and glue. And while she had restrung her bows, there wasn’t a single usable bolt or arrow in the place. And of course, on the one day she let her good sense go wandering off into daydreams, a manticore descended on her windmill. Of course.

The windmill was made of surprisingly smooth stone, with narrow windows and tiny gables. She was almost impossible to reach. She picked up one of the logs she had hauled inside to use with her little potbellied stove and carried it over to the window where she’d last seen the manticore. 

“OI!”, she shouted, “Show yourself, creature!” It was only a moment before she was staring at the toothy maw of a leonine face. 

“There you are, meat. I knew I smelled something good to eat here.” Its voice was a deep, growling, snarl. 
         “I know you like the taste of humans, but I am too hard to reach. If all you wanted was meat, there are easier targets nearby.” The last thing she wanted was to send this monster off to raid Phandalin, but choosing to attack a lone woman holed up in a stone windmill didn’t make any sense, “Why are you here, animal?” 
	“This is a good place for a new nest. It is far from dragons and noisy, nosy orcs. My mate will like it.”
	Great. There was another one. Lovely. She weighed the log in her hand. Was it heavy enough? She’d have to make it count, as she didn’t have that many inside the mill.
	“She will strip the meat from your bones. Beg now, and I will kill you quickly.”
	“Not happening.” She used both hands to heave the heavy log out the open window. It smashed into the manticore’s face, spraying bits of bark and splinters everywhere.
	The manticore howled and back-winged to the ground, batting at its nose and eyes with its paws. It backed up awkwardly and knocked over the beehive she’d set at the far edge of the remnants of the house attached to the windmill. In a few moments, the manticore was swatting at more than its face, as bees swarmed to protect their queen.
	It felt odd to laugh, but there was something funny about a viscuios

——
Manticore attacking the windmill, trying to get to the woman inside, who appeared periodically to yell things and throw blocks of wood at its face.

——

Vaguely humanoid head
bristling mane stretching down it’s back
body of a lion
wings of a dragon
long tail ending in cluster of deadly spikes that can impale prey at impressive range

Fierce killers, hunt far and wide for prey. Work together to take down large/dangerous creatures, sharing the kill afterwards.
Begin: launch volley of tail spikes (24, regrow after a long rest), 
on land: use claws and teeth.
When outdoors and outnumbered, stay aloft, attacking until spikes are depleted. 

not bright, malevolent nature: can converse.
While attacking, denigrates foes, offers to kill them swiftly if they beg for their lives.
If there is advantage to allowing creature to survive, it will take tribute/sacrifice in return (to equal loss of food).

Does (or did) this manticore have a master?
Manticores serve wicked masters that treat them well and provide regular prey
It might provide aerial support for an orc horde or a hobgoblin army
Could be a companion for a hill giant chief, or guard the entrance to a lamia’s lair

Territorial rivals: chimeras, griffons, preston’s, and wyverns. 

Manticores fear and avoid dragons.
