# Finding a cure

The hike back to Phandalin was uneventful, though the bodies of the orcs left behind by Cryovain were gruesome a day later, as it was obvious something had been picking them over. 

On returning to the town, they headed to Harbin’s house first. Harbin noticed Don Jon’s presence, and asked if the situation really was resolved at the mine. After hearing the story, Harbin gave the party their reward. Don Jon had a letter that he’d cobbled together from papers recovered from the office in the mine, and he asked Harbin for help getting the letter to the mining company in Neverwinter. Harbin happened to have a courier to Neverwinter leaving the next morning, and was happy to help.

Harbin was a little concerned about the wererat bite. Lycanthropy was a curse, something beyond a basic healing spell or potion to fix. He’d heard rumors of a Druid in the area that might be capable of the spell required to remove the curse (all of the wizard’s had cleared out long ago). He forgot the druid’s name, but knew it was a friend of Qelline’s, and recommended that the party seek her out.

Qelline Alderleaf was out in the fields weeding. While she held a hoe in her hand, it was obvious she was the hands-on type, as she was covered in mud. She was excited to hear stories of their recent adventures, especially those of the manticores and the ankhegs, but she confessed to having bad dreams lately. She spent most of her time outside, and had seen the dragon in the sky more than once. In her nightmares, the dragon swooped down and carried her off, leaving her son to grow up parentless. In other dreams, it was Carp that was carried off. Something needed to be done about that dragon.

She was happy to hear that Harbin remembered her druid friend, and shared with the party that he should be able to deal with Don Jon’s curse. She let them know that he was spending his time in the ruined town of Thundertree. She hadn’t heard from him in awhile, but that wasn’t unusual, as he sometimes disappeared into the forest for a time in one animal shape or another. She gave them directions to Thundertree, wished them well, and returned to her work. 

The party and Don Jon spent a restful night at the Stonehill Inn, chatting amiably over dinner and sharing stories with Amelia and Toblen. 

They set off after breakfast in the morning, hoping to cover a lot of ground before nightfall. Thundertree was close to the forest edge to the North, near where the river entered Neverwinter Wood. While traveling off the road was dangerous, traveling on it would add an entire day to their journey, so they planned to head directly north, keeping the forest on the horizon to the east.

The first day was uneventful. They took the rough road out of Phandalin to the Triboar trail and then crossed over and out into the wild lands beyond. It was sometimes rough going, as game trails they followed lead into bramble patches, but they didn’t encounter any truly difficult terrain, and set up camp that night atop a bit of a rise, satisfied with their progress.

As they finished their meal (some campfire-roasted rabbit deftly collected by Immeral), there was a slight disturbance just outside the firelight. As the party gathered themselves for a fight, a centaur walked into their camp, hands outstretched to show he meant no harm. The centaur looked tired, and hungry. He introduced himself, and asked to share their campsite for the evening. The party agreed, and Xanth settled himself down, seeming to relax as he was surrounded by others. 

Xanth was driven from his home in the wood by dangerous orcs, worse than the usual sort. They were tied up with spell casters, and a boar, and lightning. It was more than he could deal with on his own, and so he left his home. He would like to go back to free the forest from the danger, but doesn’t think he will find many that are willing to go. He was headed to Phandalin in the meanwhile. He knew that Daran Edermath, a friend he made long ago, would allow him to stay in his orchard while he sorted out how to recover his home.

They spent the night peacefully, keeping watch in shifts. In the morning, the party shared their plans with Xanth, who sympathized with Don Jon over his cursed condition. Xanth warned the party about witch lights and other strange sights that haunt a hill they will pass on their way North. He’d heard about ghosts and other hauntings on that hill, and had seen them since leaving the wood. After recommending that they avoid it, he wished them safe travels and resumed his own trek south.
