# The time in-between, and a dragon

8/7/2020 -- Where we left off at the end of July

You escorted a mining overseer named Don Jon Raskin to the Mountain’s Toe gold mine, passing frozen orc corpses and having a run-in with a Manticore along the way.

When you reached the mine, you found it had been taken over by “The Whiskered Gang”, a nasty group of Wererats determined to keep their new hideout after being driven from their last.

A series of clashes occurred, as the gang fought to keep their territory. Don Jon was bitten, Brocc went unconscious, but in the end, the party was successful in rescuing the five surviving dwarven miners.  After a well-deserved long rest, the dwarves encouraged Don Jon to stay with you to seek a cure for the wererat bite.

You returned to Phandalin and sought Harbin, who granted the quest reward money and agreed to send a message from Don Jon to the mining company in Neverwinter. Harbin also confirmed the party would need to go farther afield than Umbrage Hill to cure Don Jon. He sent you to Qelline Alderleaf, as he seemed to remember that she had a druid friend.

You found Qelline out in her farm field tending plants. She explained that her friend Reidoth is a reclusive druid living in Thundertree, a ruined town about 50 miles north of Phandalin, located near where  the Neverwinter River entered the western edge of the wood. Reidoth’s cottage was on the southeast corner of the ruined town, and was the safest approach to the area. You returned to the Stonehill Inn, slept the good sleep, and started the trek north bright and early in the morning.

When you next made camp after an uneventful day of travel, you were approached by a centaur named Xanth. Xanth told you he was driven from his home deep in the wood by strange creatures, larger than normal  boars, half-orcs, and strange lightning storms. He was headed to Daran Edermath’s orchard, to gather himself and figure out what to do.

The next day brought you to Dragon Barrow, the tomb of Lady Alagondar. You explored the tomb, and emerged richer, with a skeletal horse, a lute of illusions and the dragon slayer sword taken in exchange for some hard-earned lessons about traps. Her spirit visited sime of you overnight (name & nature of lute, longsword, and horse)

On awaking, you hiked the next 15 miles to Thundertree, found Reidoth, who cured Don Jon, and learned about the blasted dragon that moved in while Reidoth was away. you opted to take a long rest before going to find the dragon.

The Green Dragon was found, and a nothing went as expected. Some big damage potential was mitigated by a clutch stunning strike by Brocc. Dragon-enemy-enhanced attacks by Immeral felled the stunned dragon before it could escape. Reidoth was surprised by your quick success, and patched up the worst wounds. You started back toward Phandalin the same day. 

After **two full days of hiking**, you arrived in Phandalin in the late evening. The common room of the Stonehill Inn was full, including some new miners on their way to Mountain’s Toe. Don Jon thanked the party profusely for his rescue, before excusing himself to join his colleagues in planning how to restore the mine.

You all spent some time swapping stories in the common room before heading to bed.

And that is where we left off..

——

So.. what do you want to do next?

Loose ends:

1. Xanth the centaur is at Daran Edermath’s orchard. He told you about the boars and other creatures in the forest, and can take you there.
2. You have a pouch of gold and a note for Qelline from Reidoth
3. You know about the white dragon, but haven’t seen it recently, and you don’t know if anyone else has.

