# Post-Axeholm

You returned to Phandalin to find it bustling. There seemed to be an influx of hardy, working types out and about. 

You made your way to Harbin’s house and knocked on the door. He voiced his usual protest about being too thin to be worth eating as he slid open the eye slot on his door and peered through.  On recognizing you (and despite Grizzlebear’s odd behavior), he unlocked the locks on his door and stepped out into the sunshine to talk to you.
 
You summarized for Harbin what you found in Axeholm, and he handed Kyle 300gp with many thanks in exchange. While you were gone, he made enough noise about the White Dragon to his contacts in Neverwinter that they sent a few crews of workmen to help clean out Axeholm. It turns out there are some Dwarves in the area that are interested in Axeholm, too (After hearing this, you do notice that at least half of the “new” folks in Phandalin are Dwarves.)

John offered to guide the work party back to Axeholm, which was something of a surprise, but he explained that making sure the crews got there safely and using his carpentry skills to make a place the town can retreat to (or that anyone can settle in) would be satisfying. He isn’t sure what he’ll do after that, but he’s ready to hang up his adventuring hat and move onto other things. He rummaged around in his backpack, and tossed the Wand of Pyrotechnics to Kyle to put into the Handy Haversack, “I won’t be needing it, and maybe you all will find some use for it instead.”

With a brief nod to all of you, and a quick word with Harbin, John headed off to find the foreman for the crews headed to Axeholm to find out when they intended to leave and adjust his plans.

6 Days in Phandalin

You all then spent 6 days in Phandalin unwinding from adventuring. Riardon played at the Stonehill Inn twice a day, completely offsetting the cost of your stay.

(1) You all sat down for dinner with John before he left with the work crews for Axholm. You told him you were going after the dragon, and he left you with the following items that he won as part of your adventures (he felt you needed some of them more, especially when facing the dragon): 
* Mithril Chain Mail
* Mystery Key
* Sending Stone
* Shovel
* Wand of Pyrotechnics
* Potion of Psychic Resistance

(2) At Harbin’s mention, you found Mabina, who was passing through again, and in a token of favor, because she was able to put the splendiferous bauble to “very good use”, she identified all of the outstanding items:

Mabina identifies: 
* Gauntlets of Ogre Power (STR 19)
* Dread Helm
* Necklace of Fireball
* Lute of Illusion
* Battleaxe: Hew
* Potion of Growth
* Scroll of Lightning Bolt
* Scroll of Misty Step

(3) Riardon heard from two villagers: 

* Freda, a weaver you talked to once before, let you know she thought you all were crazy. She suggested you visit the Shrine of Luck to ask for Tymora's blessing. It might help you survive. 
* Narth, the old farmer, said there were old stories about a fortress up in the mountains, but he doesn't remember that well. He thought Daran might remember. 

(4) On one of the days, you all finally trekked out to Edermath Orchard to finally meet Daran Edermath, a retired half-elven adventurer. 

George was there, and was happy to see you and share that he was doing well.

Xanth, the centaur, was also still at the orchard with Daran, and as you all conversed you were reminded of the issues with Orcs in Neverwinter Wood. Daran and Xanth also shared that Falcon (a noble that maintains a hunting lodge in Neverwinter Wood) has also been seeing orcs in the vicinity of his lodge, which is a growing concern, as the lodge is so isolated.

Daran's comments regarding dragons were stark: 

"Do you know anything about white dragons? They are nasty brutes, that's what you need to know. They aren't clever. They don't talk much, and they're impossible to bargain with. They want to smash and claim and eat. Also, they really really really love cold. They are cold. So if you are serious about this heroic impulse, I suggest you make sure you're prepared for cold weather."

Orcs attacked Phandalin!!

(5) Drusz dashed into the Stonehill Inn near dusk one evening, in complete panic and disarray. The disentangled story: Linene Graywind saw Orcs approaching as she looked out over the open land to the west on her way home. She dashed to tell Thel, and Daniel promised to go fetch George and Seamus and gather in the Town Green to muster with whomever else comes to face off against the inbound party of orcs. Thel and his family rouse one part of town (either head up to the manor, or hunker down). Amelia and Toblen do the same, gathering Pip, and shooing the rest of the townsfolk out of the inn to dash back to their homes and either hunker down or flee toward the Manor.

The party all went to the town green. Immeral sent Acronix (with Brocc) out to find the Orcs, who eventually slipped out of the shadows to be spotted on roofs and at the edge of the orchard. Kyle took some shots with his Javelin at one of the rooftop archers, and Riardon one-shotted two orcs and put a serious hit on a third with a well-placed Shatter spell followed by a Ray of Frost. After many rounds of combat, all the orcs but one were felled.

The Orc was questioned! Rage ebbed (because Grizzlebear was astonishingly ridiculous), and the Orc explained the layout of the mountain fortress and was even persuaded to draw a map!  Riardon gave him 10gp to go get supplies before he headed off to find the other orcs in the forest.

The party all went to Barthen's provisions to purchase cold weather gear for 10gp each. On the way out, Grizzlebear spotted a big old tree, and stopped to have a conversation. Opinions are divided on whether or not 'Knotty Dave' was funny... but the tree was happy. The tree also shared that Cryovain has made a few low-flights over the town late at night (as a tree, it fears deep freeze as much as it does fire. Seasonal changes are fine, but the cold of a dragon is something else).

(6) The party visited Daran again, to find the location of the mountain fortress the Orc mentioned.

"Now, as for a fortress in the mountains... hmm. I don't know that this is anything other than a story, because I was far down the coast when all of this happened, and getting a clear story from anyone is sometimes a fools errand... In any event, there was apparently a warlord named Delsendra Amzarr who built a stronghold in the mountains. She and her soldiers lived there for many years and kept the orcs of the Sword Mountains in check. Supply lines to the fortress were cut off by heavy snow and blizzards during a brutal winter, and Delsendra and her followers starved to death. That's the extent of the legend I know. Given the state of the mountains and what is going on, I would guess that if it is the same fortress, the Orcs siezed it after Delsendra and her band were dead... and further, that the white dragon has claimed it now. From what I was told, the fortress was hard to spot, but was near Icespire Peak."
