# Spare NPCs

1. Agmus: Male Dwarf **Entertainer**, Neutral. Agmus is short, with curly blonde hair and amber eyes. He wears modest garments and an amulet of luminous crystal. Agmus seeks to free himself from an ancient curse.
2. Benne: Female Human **Soldier**, Neutral. Benne has straight golden hair and blue eyes. She wears leather armor and wields a warhammer and javelins. Benne is haunted by the memories of a past life.
3. Sigismond Took: Male lightfoot halfling **herder**, LG. Sigismond is wearing simple peasant clothes, and holding an oversized, curved staff. He has tan skin and hazel eyes. He has short, thinning, wavy brown and gray hair. He always wants to go take a nap. He is uncommonly clever. He believes it is important to have good manners and treat everyone fairly. He believes the pursuit of pleasure is empty.
4. Andaren Caswell: Male human **farmer**, CN. Andaren wears simple peasant clothing. He has tan skin and green eyes. He has short, wavy red and gray hair. He has a long red and gray beard. He believes it is important to be respectful toward your elders and he believes everyone is where they are for a reason. He believes you shouldn't worry about repaying debts.
5. Alok Fisher: Male half-elf **herder**, CE. Alok is wearing simple peasant clothes, and holding an oversized, curved staff. He has light skin and brown almond-shaped eyes. His head is shaved, with hints of bluish silver hair. He has a thin bluish silver mustache. He rarely drinks. He believes it is important to do what feels good and to be polite. He believes you should ditch your responsibilities and have fun.
6. Kyra Blackbar: Female human **farmer**, Neutral.Kyra wears simple peasant clothing. She has ruddy skin and blue eyes. Her long wavy dark brown and gray hair is tied in a ponytail. She is very clumsy. She is smart, and savvy. She believes it is important to take risks and to be famous. She believes you shouldn't just accept the hand you were dealt - go your own way.
7. Edach: Male Elf **Priest**, CG. Str 6, Dex 7, Con 8, Int 6, Wis 8, Cha 6. Edach has thick copper hair and amber eyes. He wears well-made clothing and a sable fur cape. Edach is searching for the lost empire of Argegron.
8. Ecin Bene: Female Human **Craftsman**, NE. Str 9, Dex 12, Con 10, Int 7, Wis 10, Cha 12. Ecin is tall, with thin golden hair and blue eyes. She wears worn clothing and riding boots.
9. Rantha Tonell: Female Halfling **Scofflaw**, N. Str 15, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 13, Wis 5, Cha 7. Rantha has white hair and bright hazel eyes. She wears travel-stained clothing and several small tools hang from her belt. Rantha is moody and greedy.
10. Saba: Female Dragonborn **Professional**, N. Str 10, Dex 10, Con 6, Int 14, Wis 9, Cha 9. Saba is tall and thin, with bronze scales and green eyes. She wears modest garments and several pouches hang from her belt. Saba holds a grudge against orcs.
11. Joane: Female Halfling **Entertainer**, NG. Str 11, Dex 6, Con 11, Int 11, Wis 8, Cha 6. Joane has golden hair and brown eyes. She wears fine clothing and a sling of vials and potions. Joane is haunted by the ghost of someone she killed.
12. Dumno: Male Elf **Artist**, N. Str 12, Dex 11, Con 6, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 10. Dumno has straight gray hair and hazel eyes. He wears tailored clothing and a sling of vials and potions. Dumno is searching for the legendary elven kingdom of Karnione.
13. Nimlothien: Female Elf **Soldier**, LN. Str 8, Dex 14, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 7. Nimlothien has gray hair and green eyes, and a sharp nose. She wears studded leather and wields a halberd. Nimlothien is talkative and devout.
14. Puaba: Female Dragonborn **Soldier**, LE. Str 8, Dex 10, Con 9, Int 11, Wis 12, Cha 10. Puaba has bronze scales and green eyes. She wears leather armor and wields a glaive.
15. Sarica: Male Tiefling **Soldier**, NG. Str 10, Dex 6, Con 11, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 11. Sarica is tall and slender, with golden hair and red eyes. He wears leather armor and wields a war pick and hand crossbow. Sarica has an animal companion, a copper firedrake named Heodiga.
16. Hildga: Female Dwarf **Merchant**, LG. Str 11, Dex 12, Con 9, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 7. Hildga has golden hair and blue eyes. She wears sturdy clothing and a wide-brimmed hat.