---
tags:
- timeline
- events/npc/waterdeep
---
# Ches 27, 1499

> [!weather] Weather on Ches 27, 1499
> Overcast
^weather

## News and Rumors on Ches 27, 1499
- [ ] NEWS: The Sea Maidens Faire has a special discount deal tonight: three-for-two entry on the gangplank with one free drink provided per person!
- [ ] NEWS: Strangers across the Castle Ward have reported mysterious lapses of memory: a few hours here, a day there. Suspecting a curse, the Watchful Order of Magists and Protectors has announced an investigation into the matter.
- [ ] Watch where you go in lowtown. There’s war on the streets. Them gangs that’s pledged to The Guild is fighting them that’s pledged to the Black Network. If you want to keep your purse and your hide, I’d steer clear of the docks at night.
- [ ] My sister’s cousin on the City Watch says there’ve been several vampire sightings of late. Waterdeep ain’t had trouble with bloodsuckers for centuries!
- [ ] Blue Alley is very dangerous but is said to be full of fabulous treasure. I’ve heard there is a powerful magic shield in there.

## NPC Activity

### Bregan D'aerthe
- *Jarlaxle's mood*: critical
- Sea Maiden's Faire: 
    - On the docks: 1 Juggler, 1 death dogs
    - Carnival tonight

### Xanathar Guild
- *Xanathar's mood*: concessionary, hospitable, revitalized

### Manshoon's Zhenterim
- *Manshoon's mood*: chatty
- *Urstul Floxin's mood*: unpleasant

### The Doom Raiders
- *Davil Starsong's mood*: peaceful
- *Yagra's mood*: amazed

## Sessions
```dataview
LIST
FROM [[]]
WHERE !contains(file.inlinks, this.file.link)
```