---
tags:
- gm/story/ideas
---
# Notes on the House of Thalivar quest in Storm Lord's Wrath

I just ran this quest last night, and so here are some notes and ideas for anyone who's planning to run it:

* DO NOT SKIP THIS QUEST if you plan on running the next two adventures (Sleeping Dragon's Wake and Divine Contention). It may seem like it's not connected to anything else in Storm Lord's Wrath, but it introduces the Ruinstone and leads up to the epic battle in Divine Contention (which also includes a really cool moment regarding Aubrey's Peculiarities Shoppe, so I recommend reading ahead so you can set it up properly without spoiling it, so far I have had none of the NPCs even mention the Shoppe but not pointed that out to the players).
* Do not forget to use the little creepy things, like hearing whispers and having books fly out of shelves, it adds a lot to the ambiance.
* My players thought that since the statues of Mystra/golems were in a "shhhh" pose, that meant they had to be stealthy through that section, which made them freak out when they failed stealth rolls (it doesn't matter, they only activate if you fix the runes on them). If they do activate a golem, really play up the mayhem as it smashes up the bookcases while trying to kill the characters.
* The rope on the crane is a really good way to get down to Thalivar's chambers if the characters break the 4th floor window and drape it down to the 3rd floor window. I forgot to use the forgetfulness ward on the window, so I just used it on the door to his chamber instead. The players thought it was hilarious.
* Clerics don't tend to have the Ceremony spell prepared, so it's a great way to get them to spend the night in the tower (especially since they will probably want to keep an eye on Gallio Elibro during the night, as there are plenty of clues that he's being possessed).
* Have Gallio Elibro sleep in his study, and then in the middle of the night (assuming the characters are keeping watch outside), have him slip out and CRAWL ON THE WALL up the stairs (he has Spider Climb when possessed) before they can do anything, and head straight up to Thalivar's chamber. Creepy!
* If confronted, have Thalivar's ghost use Horrifying Visage and then leave his body and disappear right away, leaving Gallio unconscious, and then it summons the Star Spawn Manglers in the beacon room. This will hopefully not give them a chance to kill Thalivar's ghost. If they do, just have it vanish into the Ethereal Plane and summon the Star Spawn Manglers in the beacon room.
* Ok this is the big one IMO, and it's how to run the Star Spawn Manglers in combat. Make absolutely sure they have advantage whenever possible, so they get the psychic damage on their attacks. They get it on the first round against anyone who hasn't taken their turn yet, and they have the ability to hide in dim light or darkness (basically the whole tower) during combat, so they'll have advantage on their first attack each turn. Also, use their Flurry of Claws whenever possible, and be sure to have them use their climbing movement whenever it makes sense (they can climb from the 4th to the 3rd floor via the broken floor, and they're smart enough to use it to escape and create ambushes). This can lead to frantic scrambling between floors via the stairs and ladders, especially for healers, if the party is split between the two floors. This is a REALLY DIFFICULT ENCOUNTER, and it will end up being really intense for the players if you do it right. You may have a death or two, so hopefully you have made some diamonds available to the party beforehand ;)
* The players really enjoyed seeing the Sword of Leilon when approaching the tower and then having her salute them and then disappear after they laid Thalivar to rest. Really cool and emotional moment.