# A Messy Morning

It was another misty morning in the rough-and-tumble town of Phandalin. Nestled in the foothills of the Sword Mountains, morning mist would often lurk between the town’s buildings and swirl across the narrow, uneven roads until the sun crested a nearby ridge and chased it away. 

The town had an interesting history. Long ago, clans of dwarves and gnomes made a pact to share a nearby mine rich in both minerals and magic. Phandalin grew and prospered at the cross-section of two roads passing near this and other mines in the area. But war and orcs arrived. The town was decimated and abandoned, and knowledge of the mines was lost.

Settlers from Neverwinter and Waterdeep eventually began to resettle the area to search for the old mines. They rebuilt Phandalin in the heart of the town’s ruins, sometimes reusing old fieldstone foundations. The new buildings hugged the narrow streets, while crumbled leftovers of buildings dotted the surrounding landscape. Ivy and briar covered hummocks of stone marked where the old town walls used to be.

Phandalin’s new residents were quiet, hard-working folk who came from distant cities to eke out a life amid the harsh wilderness. They were farmers, stonecutters, blacksmiths, traders, prospectors, and their families. The town had no walls and no garrison, and most of the adults kept weapons within easy reach just in case, but visitors were welcome, especially if they had coin to spend or news to share.

The Stonehill Inn was just the place to find welcome in Phandalin. A newly built fieldstone and timber roadhouse, it was one of the only two-story buildings in the town. Situated where the Triboar trail and the Miner’s trail met in the center of town, the common room of the inn was always filled with a smattering of locals catching a meal or relaxing with friends over mugs of ale or cider.

The innkeeper was an ageless man named Toblen Stonehill. It was common knowledge that he came to Phandalin as a prospector, excited by the idea of finding one of the lost mines, but soon realized he knew a lot more about running an inn than he did about searching for mines, so he founded the Stonehill Inn instead. He was known to be helpful and talkative, especially to those that were respectful while on the inn’s grounds.

The inn’s common room was particularly crowded on that particular morning, with several independent traveling parties happening to cross paths in the common room over breakfast.  An elf ranger had ghosted in along with the mist in the early hours of the morning, looking for a hot meal to counter the chill air. He remained in the common room, sitting off to the side, watching patrons come and go without seeming to be in much of a hurry to go anywhere else. Toblen thought he saw a bit of hay sticking out from under his thrown-back hood, and wondered if he’d found the hay-loft at the Alderleaf farm. Qelline was a kind soul, always willing to let travelers stay in the hayloft in her barn. She had a weak spot for rangers. She loved hearing their stories, which tended to involve close encounters with monstrous beasts in the wilderness. Toblen thought that, while she loved her farm, she had a secret wish to wander off into the forested hinterlands herself.

Two burly dwarves that vaguely resembled each other came downstairs and sat together at a small table. They were brothers, and had rented one of the bunk rooms when they arrived yesterday evening. Toblen thought they both still looked tired, as if they’d been traveling awhile. They were speaking quietly to each other in dwarvish when he brought them their food. They were so absorbed in their conversation, he startled them when he brought over their breakfast and mugs of warm mulled cider. Toblen himself loved having that cider with his breakfast, especially when it was warm and spiced. Daran grew the best apples in his orchard, bar none.

Two fighters had also rolled into town last night. They made an odd pair, with one of noble birth and the other a (very likable) commoner. Thanks to the noble’s tastes, they’d spent the night in one of the larger rooms upstairs. As he made a trip from the kitchen to one of the tables, Toblen saw the two men sitting at the counter talking to his wife, Amelia. He couldn’t hear them over the murmur in the room, but their conversation was full of chuckles and wry glances, and that made him smile. Amelia was always pleased when their guests were entertaining. 

Toblen was about to sit down for a bit of something during the lull between breakfast and lunch, when an aged, disheveled elf arrived. He was clearly an academic of some kind. His pack had ink stains all over it, and he had the distinct air of someone who had spent more time with books than with people. He looked around the common room with a bit of apprehension before wandering to the counter to speak with Amelia. She pursed her lips briefly, and nodded in the direction of the nearest table. The elf took the hint and went to sit down. 

The next hour or so was a bit of a nightmare, as far as Toblen was concerned. True to his guess, the elf had been reclusive, and while he asked for ale to go with his early lunch, he clearly had little experience drinking it. Before long (and without warning), the elf was on top of the table with his mug, speaking loudly to the whole room using big complicated words that were rendered unintelligible by a slight slur. Toblen had no idea what happened next, but there was suddenly ale all over the table, and the elf’s breeches were very wet. Toblen frowned at the mess he would have to clean up. 

Despite apparent drunkenness, the elf was surprisingly dexterous. Before Toblen could catch him (and throw him out of the common room), he’d managed to swipe one of the dwarves mugs, and spill that all over his clothes (and the floor), too. Both dwarves stood up, and started to move towards the elf with menace in their eyes. The elf danced away, dripping.

The two fighters both turned from the counter, noticing the elf and the dwarves, probably due to Amelia’s disapproving glare. One of the men, the commoner, moved toward the listing elf, herding him back towards the dwarves. Toblen sighed. This was going to get ugly. He hated cleaning up after brawls. 

Before he could intervene, however, the other elf, who had been sitting quietly in the corner, stood up and captured the attention of everyone in the room. He announced that he’d picked up a task from the board outside the Townmaster’s hall that morning, and was looking for a few hardy souls to join him in a day trip out to Umbrage Hill to let Adabra know about the dragon that has moved into the area. “There is a reward, of course,” he concluded. 

To Toblen’s surprise, the noble volunteered first. The two dwarves, distracted for a moment from their pursuit of the haplessly tipsy elf, also volunteered. The other fighter shared a look with his friend, and agreed to go as well. Perhaps they had the idea that Adabra needed to be rescued. Toblen snorted. Adabra was stubborn and self-sufficient. She probably already knew about the dragon, and he would bet money that she wouldn’t come back into town.  She was reclusive and preferred being out by herself with her bees. That said, he was happy with any excuse to avoid a brawl, and was looking forward to the party’s departure.

As the group gathered to leave, the older dwarf took a last look around the common room, at the dripping elf, and then met Toblen’s gaze. He gave Toblen a quick nod before closing the distance to grab the tipsy elf by his backpack. “You,” he said to the elf, “are coming with us.” The elf let out a surprised cry as the dwarf dragged him out of the room. The rest of the newly formed party followed, leaving behind an awkward silence as the other patrons tried to digest what happened. 

Toblen looked at Bob, who was looking at the door with an odd expression on her face. With a sigh, Toblen went to fetch a mop and a rag to clean up the mess.  He would be happy to see most of that party again. But that elf. He could tell by his wife’s face that he would not be welcome in the inn again. 

As he cleaned the table and mopped the floor, Toblen considered. If the elf did come back with the rest of the party, he would probably be let in. But sure as honey made mead, they wouldn’t serve him anything with alcohol in it ever again. 