# Don-Jon's Predicament
  
Poor Don-Jon. It seemed like everything he did turned into an adventure. He wasn’t sure the party that escorted him to Mountain’s Toe believed any of his tales, though they were mostly true. There was some artistic embellishment, sure, but that was required to make a proper and interesting tale out of what would otherwise be another misadventure. He had every intention of getting the mine fixed up and in good order. It was something he was good at, and that he loved to do, but fate seemed to have other ideas. 

He was the only one bitten by the wererats in the mine, and he was frustrated that he hadn’t been able to help more. So many of his attacks missed their mark. He wondered if it was shock from being bitten; if some part of his attention was occupied worrying over what it meant.

The adventuring party did, in the end, manage to clear out the mine. He liked Brocc, the small monk that was almost too brave for his own good. He wondered if the party was unusually lucky. They didn’t carry any healing potions that he noticed. Riardon, the bard, seemed to be able to do enough to keep members of the party from dying. Don-Jon suspected that the druid might know a healing spell or two, but he spent most battles in the background in wild-shape, which prevented him from doing any battlefield healing. 

In the aftermath of the battle for the mine, he spent time with the dwarves, getting to know them and learning what they’d endured, listening to them tell of how the other miners tried to save the mine, and were either turned or killed. He would need to send word back to Neverwinter to ensure the dwarves were recognized for their determination. They could have fled, but instead they stayed and fought. It was amazing.

When he woke in the morning, he was surprised when the dwarves insisted that he should return with the adventuring party to deal with the wererat bite. Maybe he shouldn’t have been. The dwarves were keen to clean up and repair on their own. As their overseer, he let them know that he would be sending word onto Neverwinter and asking for help. The dwarves were fine with that, as it gave all of them time to deal with what had happened.