# Midnight visitor

The party hiked without incident all through the morning and into early afternoon before arriving at a curiously shaped hill. It rose suddenly out of otherwise flat grassland, and seemed to have odd rock outcroppings at the top. They continued to observe the odd shape of the hill as they raced to the top. It was so odd, it had to be deliberate. A row of 10-foot-tall, bone-white rocks marched along the top of the hill in a slightly sinuous row, and they realized that the hill was shaped like a dragon.

The party inspected each of the rocks, and discovered a secret entrance under one of them. They tipped it over and descended the revealed staircase, curious to see what was at the bottom. The tomb within provided a few lessons in impulse control, with pit-traps, a tunnel collapse, and trapped sarcophagi each taking a toll. In the end, the party discovered a skeletal riding horse, a lute, a necklace, and a sword before climbing back up the stairs to sleep under the stars.

The height of the hill allowed the party to look out over the road and much of the wood. They set up camp. As they finished preparing for sleep, they saw a dark and unnatural cluster of storm clouds gathered in an otherwise cloudless sky over the forest far to the east. Bolts of lighting flashed, striking towards the ground, followed by the distant rumbling of thunder, and then the clouds dispersed. The party thought of Xanth’s story, and the boar they saw in the forest on the way to the Logger’s camp that wasn’t really a boar. Knowing there wasn’t anything they could do about orcs or boars on the other side of the wood, they agreed on watches and settled down for sleep.

Grizzlebear usually had dreams of the deep forest, but this time, he found himself standing on the very hill where he and his party slept, but he was alone. A woman approached to stand by his side, both of them looking out over the wood. She was of average height, with her hair in braids wrapped around her head. She wore a deep green tabard over chain mail, and carried a helm under her arm. She looked both noble and tough. “My horse likes you, it seems.” She grinned at him. He couldn’t see his own face, but he guessed he must have looked surprised. “He took me all over the place. He never wandered, never bolted, and that was pretty amazing for what was intended to be a noble lady’s riding horse. He has lain a long time under this hill, so I’m sure he’s forgotten his name by now. I called him Festus, which means ‘steadfast’. Take care of him. He needs less care in his undead state, but he craves affection and can be killed.” The woman wandered across the hilltop and murmured soft words to the untethered, skeletal horse standing a few paces away. It nickered softly, and turned to ru

Immeral similarly found himself standing atop the hill in his dream, only he and the woman were looking out toward the High Road. “I see that you found my sword. I sense in you another dragon hunter, so I know it has found a friend. Our favored enemy is around more than is generally known. Both a white and a green dragon have been keeping me awake of late. I wonder if I will finally sleep after you take the sword away from my resting place.” She vanished from the dream before he could respond.

Riardon was also visited in his dream. He was sitting by the fire, playing the lute retrieved from the tomb. A woman sat beside him, watching the fire. After he’d played for a bit, she turned her head a bit, and he saw her grin in the firelight. “That lute belonged to my first, best and longest friend. Everything we did became an epic adventure because he was in it. He spun every adventure into a story, hurled insults that made hags weep, and charmed creatures big and small to get us out of trouble. I miss him. He should have been celebrated forever, but instead he died here with me, trying to rid the countryside of a dragon. We killed it in the end, but it killed us back, and then there were no more stories. This is a lute of illusions, it’s effects are limited and no one will mistake the images it produces as anything real, but it can make any story more entrancing, more charming, more effective. My friend was positively dangerous with it, and I think you could be, too.” She returned her gaze to the fire and disappeared.

Upon waking, the dreamers shared their odd experience with the rest of the party as they gathered their things. They left the dragon barrow with a new horse and a few backward glances.
