# To Axeholm
8/14/2020

You spoke to Harbin Wester, who let you know that there have been increased sightings of the dragon, including by Adabra, who stubbornly refused to come back to the village (insisting that she was much less likely to attract the dragon’s attention as a lone small creature). 

Harbin mentioned an old dwarven stronghold, about 15 miles to the south, that could be a refuge for the people of the town if the dragon became more persistant in attacking the town’s occupants, but he had no idea what condition the fortress was in, and doubted it was safe. He offered you 300gp to investigate. You let him know that you would do it for free, but he insisted in paying you, as the effort and danger required something in exchange. If you insisted on less, he would go as low as 250gp, but no lower.

You also spoke to Qelline, who was similarly worried about the dragon, as sightings were becoming more frequent. She hadn’t seen anyone carried off yet, but she believed it was only a matter of time.

In preparing to travel to Axeholm, you briefly visited Thel Dendrar’s home, where Mirna runs a small shop. Nicer pieces of work, a few polished chairs and end tables, were on display. Mirna sells potions and poultices for Adabra in town, and sold you two potions of healing for 50gp each. Grizzlebear and Brocc each took one, as they were usually at opposite ends of the party (though this might be reconsidered as Grizzlebear is also usually in Wild Shape). She also thanked you again for saving her family, and mentioned an heirloom (an emerald necklace) left by her family in Thundertree when they fled after the volcano erupted. It was hidden, and she was be happy for you to take it as a token of her thanks.

Question: Leave now (midday) for the dwarven fortress (Axeholm)? Grizzlebear has a horse, should you get others or walk?

——